---
title: CISC275-Rewind (Project)
category: CISC275
layout: post
permalink: /software/cisc275-rewind
---
# {{page.title}}
[frondend](https://amanikiruga.github.io/cisc275-rewind/) | 
[backend](https://cisc275-rewind.herokuapp.com/) |
[github](https://github.com/amanikiruga/cisc275-rewind) | 

## Overview
This was the biggest project yet! I thought I could make a simple react app to showcase other students' projects in the class but it got me down a rabbit hole of databases, servers, and the MERN stack. 

Technologies used: 
* Frontend
  * Typescript
  * Material UI
  * React
  * Redux (partially for state management)
  * React Router (for multipaging)
  * Axios (for making API calls)
* Backend
  * NodeJS & Express
  * Mongoose 
  * MongoDB Atlas
  * Marker & Sanitizer


## MERN stack
The MERN stack is made up of 4 different technologies, namely MongoDB, Express, React and Node. This makes up a full stack application that is versatile and scalable (as I've read). 

The project I built was a culmination of having to learn the highlevel details of each of these stacks. 

## Technical Details
This is a CRUD project, namely, Create, Read, Update and Delete. This is a very versatile model as it is what can describe (so I've read) most social media or generally any app that requires those 4 "functions". The plan for our app is divided into pages: 

### Home
This is a simple page that has an 'About' section and a link to the 'Create Project' page. This page can be customized to be a course page if necessary. 

### View Projects
This is a page that allows users to click on existing projects and view their detail. Thus it has two components, master view with all the projects and detail view with detail from a single project. 

### Add Project
This is a page that allows users to create a new project or edit an existing project. The key heuristic I had for this page is to allow users to write in Markdown. I learned that this is possible using Marker, an npm package from NodeJS. 

## State Management
From [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ngc9gnGgUdA&t=1676s&ab_channel=JavaScriptMastery) tutorial, it recommended to use Redux in order to easily manage state. I regret going down this route as it led to a lot of boilerplate code and time wasted. 

## Routing
I really wanted users to be able to go to [name of website]/projects or /add-project to view or add projects. I learned how to use React Router to accomplish this. This seems useful for bigger React projects with multiple pages! 

## User Interface
I used Material UI for the user interface and also borrowed styling code from [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ngc9gnGgUdA&t=1676s&ab_channel=JavaScriptMastery). I wanted the projects themselves to be cards as this is a modern and compact design. 

## Backend 
### Database
I decided to use MongoDB because I have previously used Firebase which is also a non-relational database and is very similar . 

### API
The frontend communicates with the backend through API requests. The backend receives REST patch, get, delete, etc. this allows for RESTful API communications between the backend and frontend. 

### File structure
I followed [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ngc9gnGgUdA&t=1676s&ab_channel=JavaScriptMastery) tutorial's way of organizing files such as creating controllers in the backend instead of populating index.js or model folder for defining the schema of the database using mongoose. 

## Other funcitonalities
It also allows you to like other projects, add "tags" to projects and hopefully it will allow you to add comments although this is not yet implemented. 


## Takaways
This was definetely a daunting project to implement even with the heavy use of tutorials about MERN. It does create opportunity, however, for bigger projects that follow the same stack, so I am glad I built it.  