---
title: Todo
category: CISC275
layout: post
permalink: /software/todo
---

# {{ page.title }}

## Week 3
I hope to: 
* Follow intro to React tutorial - TicTacToe project.  
* Create collapsable divs for the menu of the portfolio. This is so that menu items don't get cluttered. I want to use this [tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_collapsible.asp)
* Create a TODO application using vanilla JS. 
  
## Week 4
I hope to: 
* Follow Dr.Bart's TypeScript tutorial on Canvas
* Create a live safari gps web app, that is crowdsourced. This will serve as a web interface for an iphone app a good friend of mine built for children on African Safari trips. I will create the webapp using React and TypeScript. 
* Create a simple crowd-sourced contact tracing app. Something like: "I knew who?", "I knew him/her too", almost like a family tree but now specific to a specific covid case. Hope to visualize it with P5 for graphs (social network type of graphs), React (coz it's cool), NodeJS for backend, Heroku for deployement.  

## Week 5
* Learn CSS flexbox using Mozilla's MDN [docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout/Basic_Concepts_of_Flexbox)
* Create a dog breed guessing app using React and TypeScript. I had a game in mind that I will sketch up using Figma and code out, *hopefully*.
* Create a reearch paper reading application, ie. a  
* Create a website to view the best of Cisc275 web projects. Well... they need to be showcased to the public *somewhere*. I hope to use React for the frontend and NodeJS for backend. The app should have an interface to view projects, and one to add projects. 
